## Booksy

Hello! Please visit this URL: https://booksy-db.herokuapp.com  
It may take a while the first time you load it; refer to the "annoyances" section at the bottom for
an explanation of why.

## Accounts

You can of course register your own library to use as a sandbox by clicking 'register' from the login page, but a demo library has
also been prepared under the inspired name of *Fort Blaine Law Academy*. You can access it by signing in in with a
**Location ID** of 1 and one of the following strings in both the userID and password fields (same user + pass):
* `fbla-demo-checkout` to use the self-checkout account (Ctrl+F **checkout** to see here below what is meant by this).
* `fbla-demo-admin` to use the administrator account, from which you may add users and whatnot and do essentially everything.
* `fbla-demo-teacher` to use an account given the Organizer role (from which one can view reports and return
   items, but without any managerial functionality besides user management)
* `fbla-demo-user` to use a user account given zero permissions except to find and check out media (i.e. given
   the Subscriber role)
 
Note that, of course, additional accounts of any stature can be created by the `fbla-demo-admin` user, and by any member with the 'manage members' permission.

## The code

Visit the [ABOUT](https://booksy-db.herokuapp.com/about) tab up top to see my credits and code, the latter being here at https://gitlab.com/hdtrhn/fbla-webapp.

I suppose it's a bit much to slog through, but I hope my comments and docstrings are sufficient.

To aid you in reviewing the project, here's a general what-to-look-for and a brief explanation of its structure:
* The server back-end code is in the `server.py` file of the root directory and in the `backend/` folder of the same.  
  Within the backend folder, each sub-folder in the `blueprints/` directory corresponds to a path in the site's API;
  for example, to see which sections of the "HOME" page the current user can navigate to via the sidebar, the webapp sends a request to the URL
  `/stock/buttons/home-sidebar`.  
  This is reflected in the back-end directory structure; when this request is received, it's routed to the file in
  `backend/blueprints/stock/buttons.py`, and is handled within this file by the function decorated `@btn.get('/sidebar')`.
* The part of the back-end code that does the actual accessing of the PostgreSQL database is contained within
  the `backend/typedef/` directory, where I've defined objects for locations (i.e. libraries registered with Booksy),
  users (anybody logged in), media items, media types, and roles (user authorization property containers).
* The front end, whose structure was generated by the Angular CLI shipped with Angular 5 (though of course the CLI
  does not do any actual coding), is contained in the `src/app` directory.
* Within `src/app`: the `.service.ts` files are what Angular calls Services, from which I do the actual
  communication between the front and back end. These services provide a way for the rest of the app to interface with the
  server and get any necessary information or data, and are generally self-explanatory from the var/function names.
* The files in the sub-folders of `src/app` are Components (as indicated by the word `.component` in their
  filename), which define the logic for pages served to the end user.  
  Files that end in `.component.ts` are the TypeScript code that grabs info from the Services to pass to their corresponding
  `.component.html` file, and the latter contains the HTML shown on the actual page. (If the HTML is short enough, it may
  also be placed within the `.component.ts` file after the `template:` line.)
* Any further questions about the project structure of an Angular app can be answered better than me by
  https://angular.io/docs and https://angular.io/tutorial.
* Also! For the Python route-handler files, don't be confused by the 'random' asterisks in function definitions -- they're only there
  so I could visually tell apart the 'universal' parameters (location, role, media, user, etc., placed before the asterisk) from ones
  specific to that function. The asterisk's usual purpose is to differentiate positional
  arguments from keyword arguments, but this doesn't apply here because my rqst\_get and uid\_get decorators pass everything in
  as a keyword argument anyway.


## Account types

Visit the [HELP](https://booksy-db.herokuapp.com/help) tab, next to the [ABOUT](https://booksy-db.herokuapp.com/about) tab, for detailed info.
I'll repeat some of the HELP info below --
 
There are two basic account types:
1. A checkout account, which is one shared by all members of the library (or the school, as it were) and from which any
member may enter their username to check out a book; this is my implementation of universal self-checkout (intended
to be used by leaving it up on a computer at the front desk of a library), and may be used by anybody at any time as
long as they know their username and the ID of the book they'd like to check out.  
...It's somewhat useless in its current
state because we don't have actual tangible books to use; in an ideal system, the user would scan the item's physical
barcode after entering their username, then just hit 'Submit' and be done. As it is now, however,
you must first have memorized the book's barcode/ID (fortunately an easy task, though -- they haven't hit 3 digits yet!)
by searching it up from your own account before going to the checkout account, and at that point you
may as well just check it out from your own account and be done with it.
2. A 'user' account, which is one that may access info about the library and such. Pretty standard fare.  
'User' accounts are given permissions by proxy of the Role system, and these permissions determine how much
functionality they get out of the webapp. I encourage you to play around by logging into the admin account and
seeing what permissions and roles you can assign.
 
Hope that covers everything you need to know. Again, read the HELP articles for more.

## Annoyances

Two inconveniences, both sadly out of my control, should be made yet-further note of:
- Heroku, the platform-as-a-service host I am running the webapp on, forcibly idles projects hosted on their free tier
  (as mine is!) after 30 minutes of disuse; to do this it shuts down the server program entirely and only restarts it
  when a new request comes in.  
  This unfortunately means that if you are the only current visitor to the site, and you
  keep open a single page for this amount of time without doing anything, it will bungle your session/login info quite a bit (because the
  front end, stored locally on your computer, will load fine -- but the server won't be there to provide any information
  to it from the back end); it also means that, if you are the first to visit the site in more than half an hour, the
  application will only load after an appreciable (5-to-10-ish-second) delay.  
  Apologies for both of these inconveniences.  
  If you're ever browsing and see an "Auth required" message, or see some info not pop up when it should,
  this would also be the reason.
- The app does not function on Windows XP unless a modern browser were to somehow work its way on there, and it also (due to the
  stateless nature of its status as a webapp) doesn't really offer a viable solution to generating *weekly* reports. Instead, if the
  user wants reports to be generated periodically at a specific interval, they must manually go and click the 'generate report' button
  when they need to. I suppose I'll take my five-point hit for not following the spec here :)

## Extras
- Try it on your phone! It's not optimized for mobile at all, and the help tooltips are liable to run off the small screen, but it does work quite
 nicely considering my only conscious attempt at responsiveness was shrinking some CSS things depending on screen size.
- See `spec/d+ds.md` for a slightly-outdated-but-still-decently-accurate rundown of how the app interacts with the end-user. (It was my initial
  planning document where I got my thoughts down, but I deviated a little from it in actually applying things)
- See the "General UX overview" help article for a rundown of how to navigate the application and where to look for certain functionality.

Thank you :)

